Level 1: The easiest of the levels. This level does not contain alcohol or require the use of a heat source (stove, grill, etc) making it safe for children to prepare with limited assistance. Contains only a limited number of ingredients and steps to complete the recipe.

Level 2: Very easy but may require the use of a heat source and may contain alcohol. Easy to find ingredients and simple steps involved in making the recipe. Older children may be able to make (non-alcoholic!) recipes that fall into this category. Recipes can usually be made by people with little to no cooking experience.

Level 3: Average. The majority of the recipes on CDKitchen fall into this category. Most recipes will require basic cooking skills (chopping, dicing, measuring, use of small appliances, etc) and contain ingredients that most home cooks have access to in regular grocery stores. This by no means indicates these recipes don't fall under the category of "gourmet", it just usually means the work involved isn't as hard as it sounds.
Level 4: Above-average. These recipes either contain harder to find ingredients (that require a specialty store), more advanced cooking skills, or unusual tools needed to prepare the recipe. Many of the recipes can be made by an "average" cook but finding some of the ingredients may take some extra shopping. Some of the recipes contain basic ingredients but require extra cooking skills or special tools. Recipes that may contain significantly more preparation and assembly steps may also fall into this category.
Level 5: Difficult. For those looking for a challenge! These recipes usually contain unusual ingredients and require advanced cooking skills or elaborate preparations. Not all recipes in this category are impossible but rather require more dedication from the cook!
